Update index.mdx (#364)
wasmCloud/wasmCloud.com: blog/wasm-day-summary-blog/index.mdx

What's particularly exciting for us, as CNCF wasmCloud maintainers, is how quickly wasmCloud is being adopted. So many of this year's talks come from companies already working with wasmCloud; many in production. We've summarized all the talks from this year's event and recommend paying particular attention to presentations from wasmCloud community users Orange and Machine Metrics.

## **[Welcome + Opening Remarks](https://cosmonic.com/blog/industry/kubecon-eu-wasm-day-2024#welcome--opening-remarks--divya-mohan-suse) - Divya Mohan, SUSE**

Welcome and huge thanks to the program committee: Rishit Dagli, Ashwin Kumar Uppala, Sean Isom and Wasm Day founding co-chair (and Cosmonic CEO) Liam Randall. All session recordings can be found **[here](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2MQteKoXxICTWiUdZYEw6RI&feature=shared)**

## **[Components, WebAssembly's Docker's Moment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wttN69wciSM&list=PLj6h78yzYM2MQteKoXxICTWiUdZYEw6RI&index=2) - Bailey Hayes, Cosmonic[](https://cosmonic.com/blog/industry/kubecon-eu-wasm-day-2024#components-webassemblys-dockers-moment---bailey-hayes-cosmonic)**

> In this inspirational talk, Bailey discusses the momentous changes that combined in cloud native computing--the advent of containers alongside the digitization of industry--to create Docker's seminal moment. She explains that, with the emergence of WebAssembly, a similar paradigm shift is now taking place. In Bailey's view WebAssembly Components are the catalyst for this shift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this inspirational talk, Bailey discusses the momentous changes that combined in cloud native computing -- the advent of containers alongside the digitization of industry -- to create Docker's seminal moment. She explains that, with the emergence of WebAssembly, a similar paradigm shift is now taking place. In Bailey's view WebAssembly Components are the catalyst for this shift.
```

> Why? Bailey believes the way we build software is broken. At the heart of the discussion is the recognition that the way we build software now creates inherent barriers to success--tiny, disparate teams and a core that is filled with spikes and barriers. This is, perhaps, exemplified best in the way we build language silos. Developers coding in different languages cannot easily share libraries and code. Components change everything because they are completely language interoperable. We can take 2 components written in 2 totally different languages and have them talk to each other with strictly-defined, high-level types. We do this with the WIT IDL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why another paradigm shift? Bailey believes the way we build software is *still* broken. At the heart of the discussion is the recognition that the way we build software now creates inherent barriers to success--tiny, disparate teams and a core that is filled with spikes and barriers. 

A common symptom of the still-broken state of  software development  is how we often build in language silos. Developers writing code in different languages cannot easily share libraries and functionality. WebAssembly Components change everything because they are completely language interoperable. We can take 2 components written in 2 totally different languages and have them talk to each other with strictly-defined, high-level types. We can even do this in a strongly typed way with the WIT IDL.
```

It's an exciting time for companies at the cutting edge of embedded systems and devices. Atanas and Aaron's talk gives a sense of the opportunity companies like Intel are identifying in bringing Wasm to embedded systems. Speficially, this demo-laden talk questions why we would want GPU offload in the Wasm ecosystem and takes a closer look at the tools available right now to achieve this.

> According to Adanas and Aaron, there are two major use cases for GPU offload in Wasm. The first is when working with AI/ML as a service, the second rendering as a service. This makes sense when considering the associated deployment targets; standalone desktop apps, cloud apps in resource-constrained environments, applications running in browsers and node js. All these environments rely on low-latency and high performance. This is something that containers struggle with--as the team describes, the overhead of spinning up a container is not conducive to these use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to Adanas and Aaron, there are two major use cases for GPU offload in Wasm:
- AI/ML as a service
- Rendering as a service

 These use cases work over a variety of platforms & deployment targets:
 - Standalone desktop apps
 - Cloud native apps 
 - Cloud apps in resource-constrained environments
 - Applications running in browsers
 - NodeJS-powered platforms
 
All these environments rely on and benefit from low-latency and high performance. This is something that containers struggle with to deliver -- as the team describes, the overhead of spinning up a container is not conducive to these use cases.
```

The team then takes us on a whistlestop tour of wasi nn and web GPU offload methodologies. They then dive into WASI-WebGPU, explaining its relationship to WebGPU, and why the support for common ML tools makes WASI the most sensible way to manage GPU offload in Wasm. It's exciting to see the transformative potential of WASI in diverse hardware environments. This is a fascinating session.

## **🌍⚡ [Edge Evolution: Orange's Edge Strategy with WebAssembly & CNCF WasmCloud](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sWQqgK-79c&list=PLj6h78yzYM2MQteKoXxICTWiUdZYEw6RI&index=5) - Yann Cardon, Orange[](https://cosmonic.com/blog/industry/kubecon-eu-wasm-day-2024#-edge-evolution-oranges-edge-strategy-with-webassembly--cncf-wasmcloud---yann-cardon-orange)**

We've been collaborating with the folks at Orange some time now and the early use cases are fascinating. A major international telecoms company, based in Europe, Orange is facing the challenge of managing data centers and extending robust services to their 184 Points of Presence across 31 countries.

> In his talk, Senior Architect Yann Cardon, discussed the role CNCF wasmCloud is playing in enhancing the ability to scale applications to the edge and beyond. In his own words, "With wasmCloud, you have a single control plane for the whole of your lattice—-so you can define precisely where you throw your payloads. wasmCloud has a pure functional approach in the sense that you have 2 different abstraction actors and you deal with the outside world with capabilities that can perform as databases, HTTP endpoints and more.” Why does this matter? The short answer is 5G. 5G binds back 'over IP' services and connectivity into composite services which makes the Component Model highly relevant. It's incredible to see such a clear use case for the component model in telecoms; we're looking forward to seeing the other telcos follow Yann's lead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In his talk, Senior Architect Yann Cardon, discussed the role CNCF wasmCloud is playing in enhancing the ability to scale applications to the edge and beyond. In his own words, "With wasmCloud, you have a single control plane for the whole of your lattice -- so you can define precisely where you throw your payloads. wasmCloud has a pure functional approach in the sense that you have 2 different abstraction actors and you deal with the outside world with capabilities that can perform as databases, HTTP endpoints and more.”

Why does scale and the flexibility of a purely functional approach matter? The short answer is 5G. 5G binds back 'over IP' services and connectivity into composite services which makes the Component Model highly relevant. It's incredible to see such a clear use case for the component model in telecoms; we're looking forward to seeing the other telcos follow Yann's lead.
```

> ## **Conclusion[](https://cosmonic.com/blog/industry/kubecon-eu-wasm-day-2024#conclusion)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **[Conclusion](https://cosmonic.com/blog/industry/kubecon-eu-wasm-day-2024#conclusion)**
```

> As WebAssembly adoption grows, it's exciting to see the breadth and depth of the emerging use cases. Wasm is already having a meaningful impact at scale and in production in telecoms, manufacturing, automotive and digital services, to name a few. With **[WasmCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/wasmcon/)** just around the corner it's going to be interesting to see where Wasm goes next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As WebAssembly adoption grows, it's exciting to see the breadth and depth of the emerging use cases. Wasm is already having a meaningful impact at scale and in production in telecoms, manufacturing, automotive and digital services, to name a few. With **[WasmCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/wasmcon/)** just around the corner it's going to be interesting to see where WebAssembly goes next.
```
